# Understanding the code

Adding gRPC support to a vanilla Play application requires a few steps:

### 1. `sbt-akka-grpc` 

Add the Akka gRPC plugin on `project/plugins.sbt` 

```scala
// Akka GRPC
addSbtPlugin("com.lightbend.akka.grpc" %% "sbt-akka-grpc" % "0.4.2")
```

and enable it on your project (in `build.sbt`):

```scala
lazy val `play-scala-grpc-example` = (project in file("."))
  .enablePlugins(PlayScala)
  .enablePlugins(AkkaGrpcPlugin) // enables source generation for gRPC
  .enablePlugins(PlayAkkaHttp2Support) // enables serving HTTP/2 and gRPC
``` 

The `AkkaGrpcPlugin` locates the gRPC `.proto` files and generates source code from it. Remember to enable the plugin 
in all the projects of your build that want to use it.

Note how the `PlayAkkaHttp2Support` is also enabled. gRPC requires HTTP/2 transport and Play supports it only as an opt-in plugin.


### 2.a Serving (Akka) gRPC Services

Have a look at the `conf/routes` file where you'll notice how to embed a gRPC router within a normal play application. 
You can in fact mix normal Play routes with gRPC routers like this to offer a mixed service. You'll notice that we 
bind the `/` path to the `controllers.HomeController` like usual route,
and then we use the `->` router binding syntax to bind the `routers.HelloWorldRouter`. This is because gRPC services 
have paths correspond to their "methods", yet this is handled by its internal infrastructure and end-users need
not concern themselves about the exact names – clients too are generated from the appropriate 
`app/protobuf/helloworld.proto` file after all.

You can read more about [Service gRPC from a Play App](https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/play-grpc/current/serving-grpc.html) in the docs.

### 2.b Injecting Akka-gRPC Clients 

Similarily to the server side, the sources are generated by the Akka gRPC plugin by having it configured to emit the client as well:

```
// build.sbt
akkaGrpcExtraGenerators += PlayScalaClientCodeGenerator,
``` 

In order to make the gRPC clients easily injectable, we need to enable the following module in Play as well (in this 
example app this has been done already though):

```
// application.conf
play.modules {
  # To enable Akka gRPC clients to be @Injected
  enabled += example.myapp.helloworld.routers.AkkaGrpcClientModule
}
```

Which in turn allows us to inject clients to any of the services defined in our `app/proto` directory, just like so:

```scala
import akka.stream.Materializer
import example.myapp.helloworld.grpc.{HelloReply, HelloRequest}
import javax.inject.Inject

import scala.concurrent.Future


class HomeController @Inject() (mat: Materializer, greeterServiceClient: GreeterServiceClient) extends InjectedController {
  implicit val ec = mat.executionContext
}
```

Since you may want to configure what service discovery or hardcoded location to use for each client, you may do so 
as well in `conf/application.conf`, though we will not dive into this here. Refer to the documentation on 
[using Akka Discovery for endpoint discovery](https://developer.lightbend.com/docs/akka-grpc/current/client/configuration.html#using-akka-discovery-for-endpoint-discovery) for more details.
